---
 
wordpress_id: 312
date: 2009-05-05
layout: page
title: "RailsBridge: Making Rails inclusive and friendly"
wordpress_url: http://www.aaronsumner.com/?p=312
tags: [ Rails ]

---

![59BF2BC9-BDD3-406A-94D0-EDCBC7E6B91F.jpg](http://www.aaronsumner.com/uploads/2009/05/59bf2bc9-bdd3-406a-94d0-edcbc7e6b91f.jpg)Now
this is awesome. In light of the [negative publicity hit Rails recently
took](http://www.aaronsumner.com/2009/05/one-nobodys-thoughts-on-the-gogaruco-mess/),
a band of developers who would rather accentuate the positive things
happening in the community--and show what kinds of positive things a
community is *capable* of doing--have launched the
[RailsBridge](http://www.railsbridge.org/) effort. The RailsBridge
community will educate, mentor, and inspire while keeping things
friendly and inclusive.

Ever since I started using Rails I've believed it would be perfect for
teaching newcomers to software development multiple facets of the game,
from database modeling to scripting to user interface design (not to
mention newer facets I need to work on myself like behavior-driven
design). And as I've mentioned in the past, my Rails projects aren't
going to win any awards for the traffic they generate, but they are
testament to the fact that you can write quality applications quickly
using the framework. With that in mind, I hope I can contribute by
helping others who are in a similar boat, while also learning from those
who've achieved greater things using Rails.

**Want to get involved?** Most of the activity appears to be happening
on the [RailsBridge Google
Group](http://groups.google.com/group/railsbridge?hl=en) right now. Pick
a project or two and do what you can to help!

A big thank you to [Mike Gundleroy](http://www.afreshcup.com/) for the
idea, and to everyone else who helped get this off the ground so
quickly.
