---
 

date: 2009-08-19
layout: page
title: Bye bye, &#95;why.

tags: [ Rails ]

---

If you code Ruby, you probably know who why the lucky stiff is, and by
now you've probably heard that [\_why has abruptly disappeared from the
web](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=773106)--his prolific
art/programming projects have all been deleted, just like that. John
Resig has posted [a nice "eulogy" to
\_why](http://ejohn.org/blog/eulogy-to-_why/). I just have a couple of
thoughts.

![chunky-bacon.png](/uploads/2009/08/chunky-bacon.png)The
first two Ruby-related titles I read were *Why's (Poignant) Guide to
Ruby* and *Agile Development with Rails* (first edition). Say what you
want about the former, but it was a refreshing change from pretty much
every other software-related book *ever*. It encapsulated the whole
"make programming fun again" ethos espoused by the Ruby community, and
\_why's focus on writing *quality* code made my near-clean break from
PHP all but inevitable at that point. (For the most part, my PHP work
now involves Moodle, WordPress, or one-page sites with just enough of a
server-side requirement to make it worth my time. But that's neither
here nor there.) In that regard--and I say this at the risk of public
exaggeration--\_why was a large part of what made Ruby what it is. On
top of that, he wrote a ton of useful, educational frameworks and
applications to help make the language and its community of developers
more vibrant.

Anyway, my real point is this: There's speculation as to why \_why did
what he did, or if he was merely a hacking victim. Assuming it was of
his own volition, which I think it was, then I tip my hat to him--no
overtly public, profanity-laced name-callings; no "I'm taking my ball
and going home"-style hissy fits. Class.
