---
 
wordpress_id: 319
date: 2009-06-02
layout: page
title: "Design techniques explained: Chuck Jones and storyboarding"
wordpress_url: http://www.aaronsumner.com/?p=319
tags: [ "Instructional Design" ]

---

![37FED29F-A111-4A34-8C14-278F02AC98FA.jpg](http://www.aaronsumner.com/uploads/2009/06/37fed29f-a111-4a34-8c14-278f02ac98fa.jpg)Allow
me to put on my (information/instructional) designer hat for a moment.
Tonight I watched an excellent film called [*Chuck Jones: Extremes and
In-Betweens, a Life in
Animation*](http://www.netflix.com/Movie/Chuck_Jones_Extremes_and_in_Betweens_a_Life_in_Animation/60024809),
from PBS's *Great Performances* series. In case you don't recognize the
name, Jones was the mind and pencil behind the *Looney Tunes* cartoons
we all grew up watching--you know, Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck, Wile E.
Coyote and the Roadrunner, and so on. He also directed the animated
version of *How the Grinch Stole Christmas!*

The film came out in 2000, two years before his death, and it was
interesting to hear him discuss these works and the work that went into
them behind the scenes. In particular, I thought his explanation of
using storyboards to create and capture story was excellent. Mr. Jones,
as director, drew each key frame by hand, then turned things over to a
series of animators and background artists to put their touches on the
final product. The results, more often than not, were masterpieces of
American popular culture, and everything started with those storyboards.

I bring this up because in all my design-related classes I've never seen
a really good example of the storyboard's role in crafting a message,
particularly in instructional design. In *Extremes and In-Betweens* you
get to see real-world storyboards and real-world examples you already
know, not made-up training modules or mock advertisements. It might also
be a nice reinforcement for anyone developing presentation materials in
the *Presentation Zen* style (see *PZ*'s [post on
storyboarding](http://www.presentationzen.com/presentationzen/2009/01/lessons-from-the-art-of-storyboarding.html)
from last January for more).

If you teach storyboarding in any sort of visual communication course, I
recommend tracking down a copy of this film (I got it through Netflix)
and sharing it with your students. If you're interested in becoming a
better designer (whether "design" is in your job title or not) and want
to see an example of top-notch storyboards, check it out. I can't think
of a better example of this crucial tool for information and
instructional design.
