---

date: 2010-02-20
layout: page
title: "Upcoming conferences of potential interest (and not called SXSW)"
tags: [ "Rails", "Social Media", "Entrepreneurship" ]

---

I loved my experience at SXSW Interactive last year, but unfortunately a
week in Austin isn’t something my work can afford to send me to every
spring. Luckily the Great Plains are apparently becoming a hotbed of
conference activity. Here are a few upcoming events I know about in the
greater Kansas area:

### Free State Social, Lawrence KS, April 29-30

I personally have heard about all I care to hear about from
quote-unquote social media gurus, but if you haven’t then you could do a
lot worse than attend [Free State
Social](http://www.freestatesocial.com/) in my hometown of Lawrence,
Kansas. Chris Brogan, Jeremiah Owyang, Ellyn Angelotti, Shawna Coronado,
Sarah Evans, and Scott Raymond are the all-star lineup of featured
speakers. Regular tickets are \$295; \$395 will get you a VIP ticket and
extra access to said all-stars.

### Red Dirt Ruby Conference, Oklahoma City OK, May 6-7

I just found out about [Red Dirt Ruby
Conference](http://reddirtrubyconf.com/) this morning. Looks interesting
if you’re into Ruby and/or Rails, and they’ve lined up some decent
speakers to talk about Rails 3, the NoSQL movement, server stuff, and
Ruby stuff. I’m waiting to hear what it costs, but Oklahoma City’s a
neat town and worth a visit. (As an aside, I’ve also heard rumblings
about a potential Ruby conference in Kansas City. Stay tuned.)

### Big Omaha, Omaha NE, May 13-15

I love Omaha, and I love the work being done there to promote
creativity, entrepreneurship, and the blending of the two (when in
Omaha, check out [The Kaneko](http://thekaneko.org/)). The second
installment of [Big Omaha](http://www.bigomaha.com/) is coming this May.
I have mixed feelings on the speaker selection. I’m a big fan of Scott
Belsky’s work; not so much that of Matt Mullenweg. I’ll have to see a
more defined agenda (and a price tag) before I decide whether to make
the drive north.
