---

date: 2010-07-04
layout: page
title: "Where I've been: Recent writings elsewhere"
tags: [ "Ruby", "Rails", "Projects" ]

---

I haven’t posted here in awhile, but it’s not because I haven’t been
writing. As you may know, I do most of my work in two other blogs: the
[Stratepedia Blog](http://blog.stratepedia.org/) is work-sponsored and
focuses on my take on education technology and its effects on
instruction, literacy, professional development and school reform; more
recently, I started [Everyday Rails](http://everydayrails.com/) to help
beginning Rails developers hone their skills through tutorials and
general commentary on the state of Rails development. Here is a sampler
of recent writings you might find interesting from each:

From the Stratepedia Blog:
--------------------------

#### [5 ways to start using Safari extensions](http://blog.stratepedia.org/2010/06/11/5-ways-to-start-using-safari-extensions/)

Safari *finally* supports extensions, or plugin-like functionality using
HTML, CSS, and JavaScript (think Greasemonky or Jetpack for Firefox, or
Chrome Extensions in Google Chrome). I wrote this post a few days after
Safari 5’s release and included five extensions to get started with.
Even if the only extension you install is Shut Up, this feature is worth
its weight in gold.

#### [5 ways to make online text more readable](http://blog.stratepedia.org/2010/06/18/5-ways-to-make-online-text-more-readable/)

Another post inspired by a new feature in Safari 5: If you’re not using
the new Reader function to cut out the clutter and get a nice, clean,
*readable* page, then you should. If you don’t use Safari, there are
four other options for doing this. Why would you want to? By removing
the navigation, ads, poor design choices, and other irritants that make
up a good chunk of most web pages you can focus on the content you’re
interested in reading (seriously, have you *tried* to read a newspaper
online lately? It’s like their last gasp at saving their industry is
making the online experience so bad that people will go back to print
subscriptions).

#### [5 uses for Dropbox](http://blog.stratepedia.org/2010/07/02/5-uses-for-dropbox/)

I was at a conference last week, and in a small breakout session the
presenter had some files she wanted to share with participants. Her
method? She copied the files onto two portable USB hard drives (not the
little USB flash drives like you’ve got on your keychain; \_actual hard
drives\_) and had participants pass them around. This inspired me to
write a post on Dropbox, an online service I use almost daily for
keeping my own devices in sync and sharing files with others without
e-mail attachments or the passed-around-hard-drive method outlined
above.

From Everyday Rails:
--------------------

#### [Hacking Restful Authentication](http://everydayrails.com/2010/06/08/hacking-restful-authentication.html)

Restful Authentication isn’t the login system of choice these days for
most Rails development&mdash;I’m not even sure if it’s compatible with
Rails 3&mdash;but if you’ve got a legacy Rails application using Restful
Authentication, this post may be of use to you. In particular, it
suggests additional code to allow your users to update their accounts in
a secure manner.

#### [Adding authorization to your Rails app with RESTful\_ACL](http://everydayrails.com/2010/06/16/authorization-restful-acl-1.html)

This series of posts (to be concluded, eventually) is about an
alternative to role-based authorization systems that garner most of the
attention when it comes to needing to set permissions within your Rails
applications (defining *who* can do *what* in your app). [Part
one](http://everydayrails.com/2010/06/16/authorization-restful-acl-1.html)
walked through the setup process, [part
two](http://everydayrails.com/2010/06/21/authorization-restful-acl-2.html)
covered the basics of adding ACL (access control layer) information to
your models, and [part
three](http://everydayrails.com/2010/06/24/authorization-restful-acl-3.html)
got a little more advanced with using parent-child model relationships
in ACL settings.

#### [Stop procrastinating and install Rails 3 now with RVM](http://everydayrails.com/2010/06/28/rvm-gemsets-rails3.html)

I hadn’t seen a start-to-finish tutorial for installing RVM (Ruby
Version Manager) with a Rails 3 gemset and configuring Passenger and
MySQL to work with it, so I wrote one. I got some good suggestions in
the comments and positive feedback in the form of a link on the [Rails
Prescription
Blog](http://railsrx.com/2010/06/30/june-30-2010-the-triumphant-return-of-the-monster-link-post/)
(by Noel Rappin, author of the forthcoming book on Rails testing that [I
called the best book on Rails testing when I read the first beta
version](http://localhost:4000/2010/05/rails-test-prescriptions/)) and a
mention in the [Ruby5 podcast on June
29](http://ruby5.envylabs.com/episodes/91-episode-89-june-29-2010) (by
Gregg Pollack and Nathaniel Bibler, a couple of guys known for Ruby and
Rails tutorials and just all around knowing their stuff in general). So
that was nice.
