---

date: 2010-05-10
layout: page
title: "Come see me at SIDLIT 2010 to talk academic social networks and web development"
tags: [ "Presentations", "SIDLIT 2010" ]

---

My [talk about do-it-yourself web application development using open
source
framworks](/posts/2009/07/slides-for-my-friday-presentation-at-sidlit-an-intro-to-web-application-frameworks.html)
must not have scared off enough people last year at the annual
[SIDLIT](http://sidlit.org/) conference in Overland Park, Kansas. I got
word today that my proposal for this year, entitled *Beyond Ning:
Rolling Your Own Social Network*, has been accepted. Here’s the
abstract:

<blockquote>
Ning has recently announced plans to discontinue its free service,
requiring network creators to pay for service or leave Ning altogether.
In this session we’ll look at how this decision affects educational
users of Ning, as well as alternative, DIY social networking software
packages such as Elgg, Buddypress, and Community Engine.\

</blockquote>
I don’t think this will be quite as technical as my session from last
year, and I’m going to work hard to allow for more time for questions.
(I’ll also provide a handout this year, I promise!) If you *are* more
technically inclined, though, it’s possible that my pitch for a Special
Interest Group session for in-house web developers also got approved.
I’m hoping to meet with those of you who are doing web application
programming for universities or university departments, so we can all
share tricks of the trade. If this SIG didn’t get approved, no
worries~~~~just track me down at lunchtime on either of the two days of
SIDLIT. I’ll be the one not wearing a name tag.
\
**What’s SIDLIT?** [SIDLIT](http://sidlit.org/) is an annual distance
education and educational technology conference in Overland Park,
Kansas, for technologists in the surrounding area. It’s free to attend,
and registration is now open. I will mention that it’s *not* a web
development conference, even though that’s what I tend to focus
on~~~~but if you’re interested in seeing how universities, community
colleges, and other nearby institutions are leveraging technology to
address their unique needs, it’s worth a visit.
