---

date: 2010-09-28
layout: page
title: "The Inner Game and software development"
tags: [ "Software Development", "Reading" ]

---

A few years ago I heard a story on ESPN about Pete Carroll, when he was
still the head coach at USC. The reporter talked about a book Coach
Carroll had his players read. What interested me about this was that the
book, W. Timothy Gallwey’s *[The Inner Game of Tennis: The Classic Guide
to the Mental Side of Peak
Performance](http://www.amazon.com/Inner-Game-Tennis-Classic-Performance/dp/0679778314/)*,
isn’t even about football. Intrigued by that, and the fact that USC’s
success at the time indicated that maybe it at least couldn’t*hurt\_ to
check this book out sometime, I picked up a used copy (so used that my
copy doesn’t include the word *classic* in the title yet). I finally got
around to reading it this past month.

![cover](/images/content/inner-game.jpg){: .floater }

I don’t play tennis. The only sport I even dabble in anymore is bowling,
and I haven’t done that in a month. However, as Coach Carroll found,
*The Inner Game of Tennis* transcends tennis. It transcends sport
(indeed, Gallwey also offers *[The Inner Game of
Work](http://theinnergame.com/the-inner-game-of-work/)*; I haven’t read
it yet). There are some good pearls for software developers in the book,
if you allow yourself to read between the lines a bit. Here are few
takeaways I got:

**Set your subconscious free:** The crux of*The Inner Game* is that we
have two “selfs;” one conscious and one subconscious. The conscious
self, often, serves as critic, when it would do better as an observer of
the subconscious self, which is responsible for learning, creativity,
and productivity. By acknowledging this, and working with the conscious
self to not be judgmental, can the code we write as developers become
art?

**Observe and report:** Gallwey suggests the utility of video in
learning to observe. He wrote this in a day before video cameras were as
ubiquitous as they’ve become. I wonder if there’s something to be said
for developers recording screencasts of their work, talking through
their thought processes; then reviewing the recording later, to practice
the skill of impartial observation. Has anybody tried this?

**Learn from the pros:** I found Gallwey’s assertion that watching elite
tennis players do their thing on television will improve one’s game
especially interesting. When he wrote the book, tennis fans had roughly
one day a week to sit down and watch tennis from the couch; now there
are multiple 24-hour sports channels that may show tennis at any given
time. There’s even a channel *dedicated* to tennis.

Bringing this back to software development: I’ve always been a big
proponent of watching quality screencasts like
[Railscasts](http://railscasts.com/), even if you’ll never have a need
for the topic covered in a given week’s episode. The fact is Ryan Bates,
the developer behind Railscasts, is a top-notch Rails developer, and his
everyday coding habits are the kinds of best practices all Rails
developers should follow. I’m not talking about the old *learning
through osmosis* joke. You still have to watch, and you still have to
pay attention. But again, our video-everywhere society makes it easier
to access these pros and learn from the best.

**Know the game:** What is the reason one picks up a tennis racket? Or
plays any game, for that matter? Gallwey’s list of inner motivations is
fascinating, especially when you realize that your actual motivation may
not be what you think. To be honest, I’m still sorting this out how this
applies outside of sports, particularly to software development. I hope
to gain more insight after reading *The Inner Game of Work*, but I think
one could eventually write a list of “inner games” that differentiate
the programming theorists, the script kiddies, and the people who want
to turn in a quality project as efficiently as possible.

*The Inner Game of Tennis* may get a little too metaphysical in spots
for some people, and some may gloss over the chapters that are heavier
on tennis technique than discussion of the Inner Game. It’s a quick
read, however, and a good opportunity to take a break from books about
coding or management. I should note that some follow-up research
revealed that at least one other developer has read and reported on the
book; you may find [his
notes](http://www.zacharyburt.com/2010/06/zen-skill-development-and-the-inner-game-of-tennis-this-post-is-not-about-tennis/)
to be useful as well; they’re a little more thorough than mine.
