---

date: 2010-04-25
layout: page
title: "Documentaries, storytelling, and The Endless Summer"
tags: [ "Movies", "Storytelling" ]

---

I’ve been watching movies like a fiend this weekend, catching some
titles that are at the end of their run on Netflix’s instant streaming
option. Nothing cleans out a Netflix queue like an impending expiration.
While I will admit to watching (and enjoying) my fair share of
mainstream crap, I’ve come to actually, genuinely prefer documentaries.
I’ve begun paying more attention to the styles used to tell real
stories, and thought about what compels documentarians to choose their
subjects. In an age when pretty much anyone can have their story told in
an hour on an A&E *Biography* or VH1 *Behind the Music* (not even sure
if that’s on anymore), I think being a genuinely good documentarian
takes a little more than pointing a camera at your subject and letting
them speak and hoping the story tells itself from there, through the
voices of the people being followed, with the filmmaker playing the role
of impartial observer, however well or poorly (Michael Moore, cough
cough).

I’m no filmmaker, and aside from a couple of film studies classes I took
at KU, really have no grounds to stand on when it comes to dissecting
movies. I just know what I like. And this weekend, I took a shine to
*[The Endless Summer](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0060371/)*, Bruce
Brown’s 1966 documentary about two young Californian surfers who travel
around the world seeking “the perfect wave.” They hit the beach in
Africa, Australia, New Zealand, Tahiti, and Hawaii; interact with the
locals; and generally go on an adventure that most who love world travel
could only envy even today .

![endless-summer](/images/content/endless-summer.jpg){: .floater }

The format of the movie is probably what fascinates me the most. Being
from 1966, it is much more like the educational reel-to-reel films I’d
see in school as a kid, with no interviews from primary sources of Ken
Burns-style image panning. The subject matter, and Brown’s easy-going,
fun way of explaining it, set *The Endless Summer* apart from its
contemporaries discussing the smelting process or the like. (I would
have *loved* watching this film in school, 15 years or so after its
initial release, for what it’s worth.) The words are all Brown’s, as he
narrates the footage in a general style not unlike a 1960s wildlife
documentary--that pack of wildebeests can’t speak for itself, so the
filmmaker uses his own words to explain the situation and even put a
splash of humanity in these wild animals. Brown shows his subjects on
the waves and among the natives, but never asks them about their
thoughts . Rather, *his* words mix with *his* visuals to tell the story
from *his* point of view.

And how about those visuals? Again, I don’t really know anything about
making movies, especially historically, but I imagine that much of this
film was done on a budget and required highly portable gear. I don’t
know if those factors lent themselves to this, or it was just the shots
that Brown chose, but it’s almost like you’re in Brown’s living room and
he gets out some video he shot with his home movie camera and projects
it on a sheet he’s hung from the ceiling and talks about what is
happening, all while a cool surf rock band plays in the corner of the
room. No special effects; probably not even any color correction in
post-production. Very authentic.

Could this movie be made today? My guess is no, at least not in this
format. For starters, surfing is not the *hot new thing* it was 45 years
ago--but besides that, it would take a gusty documentarian to hold him
or herself accountable for what’s said, and not just craft and edit
interviews together to convey a message. I also think the budget for a
2010 remake would be astronomical, with the equipment and crews
necessary for professional, screenable, marketable, profitable results
driving costs through the roof. I’d be more apt to imagine this as a
scripted work, with a couple of up-and-coming young actors playing the
roles of Mike and Robert. Sprinkle in a foreign, possibly forbidden love
interest and maybe some sort of conflict threatening to rip their
friendship apart (only for them to resolve in the last 15 minutes so
they can team up to conquer the awesome, CGI-generated killer wave
and/or rival surf gang), and I smell a hit!

If you’ve got a Netflix account, you’ve got through this week to catch
*The Endless Summer* via streaming; otherwise, you can watch it the
old-fashioned way and rent the DVD. Do you know of other documentaries
like this? Are there rules or formulas taught to aspiring documentarians
about the *right* way to tell a story, or am I being too critical? Or
just overly appreciative of a filmmaking style long past its prime?
