---

date: 2010-03-01
layout: page
title: "Requiem for an Apple TV"
tags: [ "Apple TV" ]

---

Sometime last week, while I was out of town, my Apple TV bit the dust.
The status light blinks amber; some online searching suggests that the
hard drive and/or logic board went kaput. Either way I don’t think I’m
going to mess with trying to get it fixed, and I don’t see myself
shelling out \$230 for a new one given some of its general
inconveniences.

I’ve had Apple TV since January, 2008; enough time to see it through a
couple of major software revisions. There’s been a lot to like about
Apple TV~~~~streaming from iTunes on other computers and watching video
podcasts in particular~~~~but when all was said and done I think I had
more frustrations than successes with it. Sometimes it was just minor
frustrations that left me scratching my head, like podcasts I could
never remove from favorites. Other issues were more major, like the fact
I had to register my Apple TV with my iMac (which houses all of my music
and a lot of video) *three times* for proper syncing.

Installing [Boxee](http://boxee.tv) helped. I liked being able to play
just about any video format I could throw at it, and I streamed hours
upon hours of music from Pandora. The Apple TV hardware just never quite
had enough juice for Boxee, though. I couldn’t stream Netflix, and
streaming baseball via [MLB.tv](http://mlb.tv) never quite worked as
advertised. I won’t knock Boxee for their issues with
[Hulu](http://hulu.com/). That’s just a case of short-sighted TV network
execs who don’t understand where media is heading. (Not that *I* fully
understand, myself; but I do know that some of us still want to watch TV
on demand and on a regular TV screen, not a laptop. That and Jay Leno
isn’t funny.)

I know Apple calls this product their “hobby,” but if they don’t give it
more attention than it’s been getting then I don’t see it ever becoming
a viable player in the set top device market (which I think it set to
explode). I wish Apple would open up their hobby to others through an
app store for the device. Casual games are a hit on the iPhone (not to
mention the Nintendo Wii) and could explode on the Apple TV as well. How
about an Apple TV port of iChat? Just plug in your USB webcam and
participate in video chats from the comfort of your couch.

Knowing Apple, I don’t see this happening. That’s why I’m moving on.

### So what’s next?

At this point I’m leaning toward replacing my dead Apple TV with a
Playstation 3. I like the idea of streaming Netflix, and I guess I like
the idea of having a Blu-ray player (though I think that movies over
physical media will look antiquated in a few years). It would work with
my Logitech Harmony remote with an adapter. The PS2 had a great game
library, and I imagine the PS3 has a good one as well (make your
recommendations in the comments). I could plop it into the entertainment
unit right where the Apple TV’s been and be ready to go. To my
knowledge, the only media I could stream to it would be Netflix~~~~no
Boxee or similar media wrapper that I know of means no MLB.tv and no
podcasts. Probably no iTunes streaming, either. And [this whole deal
with being seemingly overly reliant on Sony’s network to even
work](http://www.engadget.com/2010/02/28/playstation-network-down-so-are-lots-of-ps3s/)
can’t be a good thing, right? And anyway, nobody’s got the thing in
stock and may not for a few months. That could be a good thing~~~~it’s
keeping me from making an impulse purchase.

Is the Xbox 360 an option? No Blu-ray player, and I really don’t care
about online gaming. I think I’d be using it as a straight-up media
center. I know I can stream Netflix to an Xbox 360, but does it play
standard DVDs? Works with a Harmony remote, right? Again, no Boxee-type
support, but on the plus side I could walk into just about any store and
pick one up today.

My third option is to [build one
myself](http://lifehacker.com/5406563/build-a-cheap-but-powerful-boxee-media-center).
I don’t know that I’d have the patience to make this work on an ongoing
basis~~~~I can’t even tolerate desktop Linux interfaces for more than a
few hours before giving up on them for another decade. I don’t know that
Windows Media Center would treat me much better. This option would
probably be relatively cheap, though, at the end of the day.
\
Maybe a Mac mini? Or would that require too many audio/video adapters to
make it worth the trouble? Would the direct integration with my existing
iTunes setups negate that hassle? The benefits of this option and the
BYO option would be as much hard drive space as I care to attach and
Boxee for the general media browsing experience. It would be nice to be
able stream MLB games to my television, too. Not cheap, though~~~~600
bucks for the basic hardware, plus the cost of a digital
audio-to-Toslink converter. And I could just control it with VNC, I
figure, though the Harmony remote should be able to control Boxee and/or
Front Row, right?

Hmm, decisions, decisions.
