---

date: 2010-01-28
layout: page
title: "My initial impressions of the iPad"
tags: [ "iPad", "Education Technology" ]

---

Hey, did you hear? Apple announced the
[iPad](http://www.apple.com/ipad/) yesterday, a 10-inch, super-thin
tablet computer with a surprisingly decent starting price of \499
(waiting to hear if they’ll have academic price breaks). Every
technology pundit worth his or her blog has already chipped in two cents
(or at least made fun of the name), so why not add my own?

First off, let me go ahead and state, for the record, as soon as Apple
makes them available for sale I’m ordering a 32 GB, no 3G model for
work. I’m going to put it through its paces as best as possible, even
trying to use the built-in Notes app to replace my need for pen and
paper when I go to meetings. I am not optimistic that the iPad, with the
features as demonstrated yesterday, will be anywhere close to what I
want in that regard. In a perfect world I’d have the option of a nice
stylus for input (in addition to all the multitouch goodness), a
freeform sketch pad for note-taking, and maybe some cloud-based, highly
reliable OCR for making my notes searchable in the future. Maybe this is
a job for an iPad-optimized version of
[Evernote](http://www.evernote.com/?)

Second, I’m floored at the thinness of the iPad. Even with the add-on
case, it looks like it will easily slide into a backpack or satchel. I
think the makers of this video are onto something when they suggest how
the iPad could transform the textbook industry:

<object id="wsj_fp" width="512" height="363">
<param name="movie" value="http://s.wsj.net/media/swf/main.swf"></param><param name="allowFullScreen" value="true"></param><param name="allowscriptaccess" value="always"></param><param name="flashvars" value="videoGUID={6B8EF7D4-3F23-4827-9CCB-7403080F4E10}&playerid=2001&plyMediaEnabled=1&configURL=http://wsj.vo.llnwd.net/o28/players/&autoStart=false" base="rtmpt://wsj.fcod.llnwd.net/a1318/o28/video"name="main"></param><embed src="http://s.wsj.net/media/swf/main.swf" bgcolor="#FFFFFF"flashVars="videoGUID={6B8EF7D4-3F23-4827-9CCB-7403080F4E10}&playerid=2001&plyMediaEnabled=1&configURL=http://wsj.vo.llnwd.net/o28/players/&autoStart=false" base="rtmpt://wsj.fcod.llnwd.net/a1318/o28/video" name="main" width="512" height="363" seamlesstabbing="false" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" swLiveConnect="true" pluginspage="http://www.macromedia.com/shockwave/download/index.cgi?P1_Prod_Version=ShockwaveFlash"></embed>

</object>
The big drawbacks of this hypothetical model, of course, is that it
would put the used textbook industry in a world of hurt and rob millions
of college students of end-of-term beer money. On the other hand, you
might see it as two ills of higher education the iPad might help *cure*.

I don’t know that the iPad will be *the* tablet computer used in higher
education. Copycats running Android, WebOS, and whatever Microsoft calls
Windows Mobile these days will appear at similar or better price points.
But I do think that we’re going to see a lot of students toting these
things around in the coming few years, in lieu of the laptops that
replaced desktop computers. iWork and the keyboard dock are what sold it
for me in that regard—a device with a good word processor, presentation
tool, YouTube browser, and Facebook client is going to be perfect for
just about any kid not in engineering school.

That brings me to my last point. Early on during the iPad introduction,
I made the comment that it was built for consumption, not creation. This
was before Phil Schiller showed iWork, and the keyboard dock add-on was
shown, so I’ll soften my stance to a degree. I haven’t watched video
specific to Keynote yet, but I can imagine that creating slides with a
multitouch interface will be highly intuitive. Heck, even the finger
painting app looks pretty neat. However, given the current specs and
software, the iPad won’t be adequate for the part of my job that has me
waist-deep in Ruby, Sass, and Haml. Maybe the answer is to set up a
development environment on a separate computer and connect to it from
the iPad via VNC? Ah, one of the many things to experiment with in 60
days or so.
