---

date: 2010-03-10
layout: page
title: "The Facebook Imperative and organizational learning"
tags: [ "social media, learning" ]

---

If you’re interested in organizational learning, or how a company or
group improves its capacity to do great things through training,
informal learning, or other mechanisms, check out this piece on [the
need for social networking technology in enterprise
software](http://techcrunch.com/2010/03/10/facebook-imperative-cannot-be-stopped/),
written by Marc Benioff of Salesforce.com. This is something I’ve
believed in strongly for years. For my capstone project in my master’s
program I even wrote some basic software to tie social networking
elements into a closed network geared around organizational learning. I
wish my explanation of the need for such software at the time would have
been as nicely written as Mr. Benioff’s argument. The key point for me:

<blockquote>
For years we’ve been reading about the potential for institutional
memory to transform a corporation into a learning organization. But,
have we seen it happen beyond very few unique organizations? A true
paradigm shift occurs when the barriers of entry are removed for
everyone. That is changing fast. With these new social models, there is
a way to immediately leverage the knowledge of an organization. People
with expertise and relevance are instantly looped in, can participate in
the conversation, collaborate, and make contributions more simply than
ever before. That will be the catalyst of this new productivity
revolution—delivered through these new social enterprise platforms.
</blockquote>

I’m curious to know more about how organizations who already *get it*
are doing this sort of thing now. If you work at a socially-wired
company or organization, or if you’ve used the social gears to drive a
grassroots cause, and you happen to stumble upon this post, I’d like to
know more about what you did.
