---

date: 2011-01-22
layout: page
title: "Building the Perfect PC by Thompson and Thompson (a Book Report)"
tags: [ "Computers", "DIY", "Reading" ]

---

![cover](/images/content/building-perfect-pc.gif){: .floater }
*Building the Perfect PC, Third Edition* by Robert Bruce Thompson and
Barbara Fritchman Thompson is written for anyone who’s tired of buying
off-the-shelf computers and is ready to go the DIY route. I think that’s
great&mdash;building a computer is educational, gratifying, and, with
the right guidance, can even be fun. Unfortunately, I don’t know if this
book provides that kind of guidance.

I’m not a newcomer to building and maintaining computer hardware. I’ve
built big servers, little servers and desktop PCs; and for years kept an
old Macintosh G4 plugging along well after its prime through systematic
upgrades to pretty much every component except its motherboard and power
supply. I’d been thinking about a home server to handle backups and a
little file sharing, and figured I’d give *Building the Perfect PC* a
shot before buying something off-the-shelf. I purchased the recommended
components for a home server and sat down to assemble it last week. More
on my results in a moment.

In the book, Thompson and Thompson cover building a budget PC, a
mainstream PC, a high-end PC, a media center, an Internet PC, and the
aforementioned home server. Each project is documented with a list of
components (with rationale) followed by step-by-step instructions. The
projects are well-documented with photographs, checklists, and potential
gotchas. The photographs are high quality and should, in theory, be
sufficient to walk readers through the process from start to finish.

However, I have three major issues with *Building the Perfect PC*.
First, I feel like if you read this book any later than a few months
after its November 2010 publication date, the recommended components
lists are going to be out of date. Second, although the building
procedures for each type of computer are thoroughly documented, due to
variations in the *same components they recommend*, some of the steps
and corresponding photos aren’t correct. If you’re a newcomer to
building PCs, and just spent a few hundred dollars on parts, and have
read in multiple places that connecting a power supply or fan
incorrectly can damage your investment, this might be disconcerting.
Finally, the authors spend way too much time preaching the merits of DIY
PC building, to the point that much of their proselytization is repeated
in just the first couple of chapters. The *why* could have been covered
in much less space to give more room for content for readers new to PC
building.

Long story short: I still don’t have a server. I had to order more
cables. My theory is that Thompson and Thompson got some of their
existing inventory of extra parts and cables mixed up with what came
with the components purchased for the project. I’m hopeful that sometime
next week I’ll be up and running, but I’d be lying if I didn’t say that
right now I’m feeling some buyer’s remorse on this whole project. To be
fair, my experiences are based on just one of the six projects offered
in the book, but that doesn’t make them any less frustrating.

Ultimately, I’m not sure for whom *Building the Perfect PC* is
intended&mdash;it’s probably too basic for anyone who’s built a computer
before, and might make too many assumptions for first-timers. For the
former, reading up on the latest components through industry blogs or
periodicals would do the trick (the components in this book are apt to
be last year’s options by the time you pick it up), and for the latter,
a book with some kind of glossary or primer up front might be a better
way to go.

[More information about *Building the Perfect
PC*](http://oreilly.com/catalog/9781449388249/) is available from
O’Reilly.

**Note:** I wrote this review for [O’Reilly’s Blogger Review
Program](http://oreilly.com/bloggers/). It’s a pretty nice deal: Get a
free e-book to read, share a review in your blog, get another free book
to read. Sign up for yourself to take advantage of this deal, and watch
for more book reports in my blog.
