---

date: 2011-07-08
layout: page
title: "jQuery Mobile by Jon Reid: A Book Report"
tags: [ "Web Development", "Mobile", "Javascript" ]

---

![cover](/images/content/jquery-mobile.gif){: .floater }
Last August, the cover of *Wired* magazine famously proclaimed that “the
Web is dead” and that native apps have taken over how we interact with
the Internet. Whether that bold statement is accurate or not is a
discussion outside the scope of this review, but what do you do if (a)
you have solid web design skills, (b) you’d like to use those skills to
develop great-looking mobile applications, and © you don’t have a large
development team (or a lot of time)? Or maybe you would just prefer to
avoid app stores and fragmentation and just give your customers a solid
mobile experience. jQuery Mobile (the Javascript framework) may be your
answer&mdash;and *jQuery Mobile* (the book) from O’Reilly Media is a
great way to get started using this framework.

In *jQuery Mobile*, author Jon Reid does a top-notch job of introducing
readers to the jQuery Mobile framework&mdash;first through some basic
examples of page creation and navigation, then on to solid documentation
on the framework itself, and finally by walking readers through a basic,
though functional, jQuery Mobile-based Twitter client that incorporates
multiple pages and UI components. The book is a quick read and easy to
walk through&mdash;Reid’s style is well-suited for this style of
tutorial/documentation combo.

Two words of caution: If you don’t already know jQuery (or, for that
matter, Javascript), this book might be a little out-of-reach once
Reid’s tutorials get more in-depth. If you’re already familiar with
jQuery, you should have no problem working through the Twitter client
tutorial and then on your own jQuery Mobile projects. Second, if you’re
looking for a reference to help you integrate jQuery Mobile with your
application’s server-side technology, this book will not help
you&mdash;*jQuery Mobile* focuses strictly on client-side technology and
does not provide detail on any back-end language (nor does it cover
HTML5 concepts like offline caching). A few quick online searches should
help you find more information in that regard.

All in all, *jQuery Mobile* (the book) is a solid introduction and
reference to using modern web technologies to develop your next
mobile-optimized web app&mdash;and jQuery Mobile (the framework) is an
excellent combination of these technologies to help put mobile app
development within the reach of developers who aren’t quite ready to
write the Web off just yet.

[More information about *jQuery
Mobile*](http://oreilly.com/catalog/9781449306687/) is available from
O’Reilly.

**Note:** I wrote this review for [O’Reilly’s Blogger Review
Program](http://oreilly.com/bloggers/). It’s a pretty nice deal: Get a
free e-book to read, share a review in your blog, get another free book
to read. Sign up for yourself to take advantage of this deal, and watch
for more book reports in my blog.
