---

date: 2011-05-09
layout: page
title: "Gamification Master Class with Gabe Zichermann (a Book Report)"
tags: [ "Gamification" ]

---

Gamification is a hot topic right now, as designers, marketers, and
educators look to game theory to increase engagement. Gabe Zichermann is
at the forefront of gamification, with a couple of books under his belt
and now an excellent addition to the O’Reilly Master Class video series.
I’ve just begun my own exploration into gamification and am glad I
started it with this three-hour set.

In *Gamification Master Class*, you get a seat at the table with
Zichermann and six representatives of large companies and startups alike
looking to gamification to increase users’ engagement with their
products (which, if I recall correctly, are pretty much all web-based).
Like all of O’Reilly’s Master Class videos, this series maintains high
production values. Zichermann’s presentation style, though, puts it at
another level from other videos I’ve watched from this series. He keeps
his audience (both in-studio and those of us watching from home) engaged
with great information and hands-on activities throughout. These
activities are provided to us home viewers as a PDF as soon as we
complete our first “challenge”&mdash;a clever use of gamification to
keep us hooked, and a valuable tool for our own gamification efforts
moving forward. It’s not a lecture; it’s a conversation about
gamification and how to make it work for a variety of marketing or
learning goals.

To summarize, *Gamification Master Class* is a top-notch, three-hour
introduction to an exciting movement in software design and marketing.
You probably won’t walk away from it with all the resources you need to
develop world class gamification implementations of your own, but you’ll
be well-equipped with the important concepts, tools, and next steps
necessary to make those implementations happen.

[More information about *Gamification Master Class with Gabe
Zichermann*](http://oreilly.com/catalog/0636920017622) is available from
O’Reilly.

<div class="panel">
**Note:** I wrote this review for [O’Reilly’s Blogger Review
Program](http://oreilly.com/bloggers/). It’s a pretty nice deal: Get a
free e-book to read, share a review in your blog, get another free book
to read. Sign up for yourself to take advantage of this deal, and watch
for more book reports in my blog.\

</div>

