---

date: 2011-08-16
layout: page
title: "Test-Driven Infrastructure with Chef: A Book Report"
tags: [ "Ruby", "Infrastructure" ]

---

<img src="/images/content/chef-cucumber.gif" class="right" />

Virtualization has made it incredibly easy for web software developers
to quickly and relatively cheaply scale their products, but what happens
when a virtual infrastructure becomes too much to manage? Enter
virtualization management tools like the popular, open source Chef,
which makes deploying services as simple as editing configuration files.
And if you want to rest assured that your deployments will work as
planned, you’d be well-served to leverage one of the many test-driven
development frameworks available for Ruby. In *Test-Driven Development
with Chef*, author Stephen Nelson-Smith shows how to leverage Cucumber
to do just this, using the
[cucumber-chef](https://github.com/Atalanta/cucumber-chef) gem.

*Test-Driven Infrastructure with Chef* is a short, relatively quick
read&mdash;the print version checks in at 88 pages. The majority of the
book presents the task of test-driven infrastructure deployment via a
basic example that mirrors real-world needs&mdash;in this case, allowing
developers to connect to a server, via SSH, using a private key
mechanism. Each step of the example is well-explained and easy to
follow. With that said, though, it’s worth noting that it’s probably
*not* well-suited for a general reference for Chef. In fact, the author
has a more authoritative book on the topic coming out sometime in the
future. If you’re already familiar with Chef, though, and want to learn
more about using TDD to make your deployments more rock-solid, this may
not be an issue.

Overall, I found *Test-Driven Infrastructure with Chef* to be a solid
overview of the concepts presented. While it may not be the end-to-end
reference on using TDD to drive software-based infrastructure projects,
it’s a good orientation to the concepts and potential issues involved
with using Chef and Cucumber in deploying your next virtual server.

[More information about *Test-Driven Infrastructure with
Chef*](http://oreilly.com/catalog/9781449304812/) is available from
O’Reilly.

<div class="panel">
**Note:** I wrote this review for [O’Reilly’s Blogger Review
Program](http://oreilly.com/bloggers/). It’s a pretty nice deal: Get a
free e-book to read, share a review in your blog, get another free book
to read. Sign up for yourself to take advantage of this deal, and watch
for more book reports in my blog.\

</div>

