---

date: 2011-10-26
layout: page
title: "O'Reilly Master Class: Leading and Managing Breakthrough Projects Video (a book report)"
tags: [ "Creativity", "Entrepreneurship", "Work" ]

---

I’m a big fan of Scott Berkun’s work. His book *The Myths of
Innovation*, was a [favorite read of mine from last
year](/2010/11/myths-of-innovation-berkun/). If
you’ve read that book and want reinforcement of the practices it
suggests, or are looking for a video alternative, this O’Reilly Master
class video may be a good pick. It’s a recording of Berkun leading a
workshop on the topic of innovation, I’m guessing from around the time
of the book’s first edition’s release. While being in the actual room
the day of the workshop is likely the ideal, this high-quality video
recording is the next best thing.

Like the book, *Leading and Managing Breakthrough Projects* pulls
heavily from Berkun’s thorough research on history’s great innovators
and his own experience as a project manager at Microsoft. It’s a dense
video, packing a day’s worth of material into four hours. His
presentation style works well in this situation&mdash;it’s a little bit
of storytelling, a little bit of sharing his own reflections on those
stories, and a lot of drawing out reflections from participants (and
viewers). Along the way Berkun shares a number of exercises, metrics,
and general advice for the would-be innovator, whether that person is
leading a team at a large organization or going it alone in the garage
at nights.

The video itself is high enough quality that I wasn’t distracted by
technical issues, but it is apparent that O’Reilly has honed their
approach to the *Master Class* series since producing *Leading and
Managing Breakthrough Projects*. More recent videos I’ve seen from this
series were produced in a controlled environment with a small group of
participants and multiple camera angles, and ultimately for the sole
purpose of producing online. This video uses a more traditional approach
by capturing a standard workshop&mdash;single-camera-in-the-back,
focused on the presenter, occasional sounds and minor distractions as
workshop participants move chairs. The drawback is that it’s difficult
to hear what participants are saying at times. Headphones helped for me.

Is this video strictly necessary if you’ve already read *The Myths of
Innovation*? While the two cover similar ground, I found the video to be
good reinforcement to the lessons learned that Berkun shares in the
book. The inclusion of exercises to lead yourself and/or your team
through to generate ideas, assess the risk associated with them, and
identify and manage the resources necessary to make them real is a great
addition to your inventor’s or project manager’s library.

[More information about *O’Reilly Master Class: Leading and Managing
Breakthrough Projects Video*](http://oreilly.com/catalog/9780596804602/)
is available from O’Reilly.

<div class="panel">
**Note:** I wrote this review for [O’Reilly’s Blogger Review
Program](http://oreilly.com/bloggers/). It’s a pretty nice deal: Get a
free e-book to read, share a review in your blog, get another free book
to read. Sign up for yourself to take advantage of this deal, and watch
for more book reports in my blog.\

</div>

