---

date: 2012-02-11
layout: page
title: "Breaking the Page: A Book Report"
tags: [ "Reading" ]

---

How can e-book technology change what it means to read? Peter Meyer’s
*Breaking the Page* explores that question and proposes a number of ways
e-book designers can leverage the best of the new technology&mdash;and
avoid some overused antipatterns&mdash;to make the e-book experience
more enjoyable to the reader. This 100-page preview edition of the book
is full of examples from a number of apps, including cookbooks, Bibles
apps, textbooks, and even the Kindle and iBooks apps. While the general
focus is on tablet-based reading, though, many of the information design
patterns shared in *Breaking the Page* apply to large amounts of content
on the web, and even traditional, desktop-based software.

Meyer’s writing style is also worth noting. *Breaking the Page* is not a
technical book; you won’t find code snippets or file downloads to go
along with the examples he shares&mdash;rather, the book reads more like
a conversational brainstorming session with Meyer, and a productive one
that. He’s clearly put a lot of thought into the future of
reading&mdash;so much so that his ideas make the likes of Apple’s new
iBooks Textbook format seem dated.

One thing I’d like to see in the book is a discussion on the benefits
and drawbacks the e-book format has for people with reading
disabilities. So far most of what I’ve seen on this front has amounted
to little more than a rehash of the 1990s CD-ROM multimedia titles that
inundated schools&mdash;it seems to me that with the advances we’ve seen
in web services and APIs today’s e-book can provide a much more robust
experience to all readers, without adding a lot of extra overhead to the
e-book software itself.

The preview edition of *Breaking the Page* is a worthwhile read for
anyone interested in writing, developing, publishing, or teaching with
e-books. I look forward to reading the finished product when it’s
available.

[More information about *Breaking the
Page*](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920020677.do) is available
from O’Reilly.

<div class="panel">
**Note:** I wrote this review for [O’Reilly’s Blogger Review
Program](http://oreilly.com/bloggers/). It’s a pretty nice deal: Get a
free e-book to read, share a review in your blog, get another free book
to read. Sign up for yourself to take advantage of this deal, and watch
for more book reports in my blog.\

</div>

