---

date: 2012-05-29
layout: page
title: "A Little Book on CoffeeScript: A book report"
tags: [ "Reading", "Programming" ]

---

It’s not a secret that I think JavaScript is ugly. Maybe it’s because
I’ve been developing almost solely in Ruby for the past several years.
If you’re in the same boat (or if you’re a Python developer who feels
the same way I do about JavaScript) you’ve likely heard of of
CoffeeScript, an alternative language that compiles neatly into
JavaScript. Alex MacCaw’s *[A Little Book on
CoffeeScript](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920024309.do_) is a
solid introduction to the little language.
\
*A Little Book on CoffeeScript\_ is indeed little (checking in at six
chapters in about 60 pages in PDF form), but offers a thorough
introduction to the language and how it can make your life with
JavaScript simpler. The book dives right into syntax, then on through
classes, idiomatic usage, a little big picture stuff (creating and
deploying apps written in CoffeeScript), and closes with a look at what
CoffeeScript fixes (and doesn’t fix) in JavaScript. I’ve viewed a few
screencasts on CoffeeScript and even written a little in the language,
but I still learned some new things from this book. In particular, the
chapters on idioms and “the good parts” will be of use to anyone making
the switch, so you won’t try to apply JavaScript’s ugliness to what is
actually a pretty little language. These chapters alone should make the
book worth buying for many developers.

With that said, this book is not for someone with no JavaScript
experience, and definitely not for someone with zero programming
experience. It’s not a tutorial; it’s more like a guided tour of
CoffeeScript’s feature set. There are plenty of examples, and I
recommend using the interactive console on the [CoffeeScript
website](http://coffeescript.org/) to experiment with these examples as
you read through the book. If nothing else, you’ll get an appreciation
of just how much typing CoffeeScript is saving you.

While perhaps not a definitive reference on the topic, *A Little Book on
CoffeeScript* is a solid overview of what makes CoffeeScript so
promising. It’s got just enough in terms of examples for developers with
a little experience, and delivers lots of practical advice for
succeeding with the language. All that in a book you can read in an hour
or so.

<div class="panel">
**Note:** I wrote this review for [O’Reilly’s Blogger Review
Program](http://oreilly.com/bloggers/). It’s a pretty nice deal: Get a
free e-book to read, share a review in your blog, get another free book
to read. Sign up for yourself to take advantage of this deal, and watch
for more book reports in my blog.\

</div>

