---
title: November 2019 update
date: 2019-11-30 13:45 UTC
tags:
---

It's been a few months since I've done one of these. Things blew up in my face
this year. I'm working to dig myself out now. I'm not going to get into the
details, or speculate on what's next for me, in the interest of living in the
present. Don't worry; I'm doing ok.

Anyway, here's a couple of things I've been up to of late (scoped to this
month). I'll try to get more regular with these things again in the coming
months.

---

A couple of weeks ago, I [teased a new writing project on Twitter][tease].
It's still pretty raw, and I'm not totally sure it's going to work out like it
looks in my head. Earlier this year, I picked up my old copy of _The Pragmatic
Programmer_ for a re-read, and discovered that a [20th anniversary edition]
was in the works (since released). I get questions about updates as soon as my
book gets a tick behind the latest revision of Rails, and have never charged
readers for new editions (though I've also never promised a lifetime deal,
just saying).

So you might imagine that the idea of a book that only needs updating every
twenty years sounds mighty compelling to me right now.

I'm not at _write a book_ phase for this yet; I'm barely at the _write a few
blog posts_ yet. But the gist is, share general lessons I've learned over the
years about writing software, in an approachable, and consistent, but brief,
format. Think [Seth Godin], but for writing software. And try to do so with as
little code as possible, to both broaden scope (outside of Ruby/Rails/RSpec)
and lengthen shelf life.

So far I've been outlining and jotting down bits as I think about them. This
project is by no means definite; I could get bored with it or it may just not
come together the way I want it to. But if it does come to light I'll share
more about it here.

[tease]: https://twitter.com/ruralocity/status/1195421307745132544
[20th anniversary edition]: https://amzn.to/2BcGg5f
[Seth Godin]: https://seths.blog

---

As a lot of you may know, one of my hobbies is cooking outside. That's one of
the nice things about living someplace where it's light out until like ten
during the summer--I can cook multiple times a week that way, if I want. But
even during the winter, I try to fire up my smoker at least once a month. I
had one of my best cooks of the year this week, cooking a boneless turkey
breast low and slow, in the style of Franklin Barbecue.

There are lots of videos online showing how to do this, but my favorite
approach for my Weber smoker is the "[Central Texas style]" technique outlined
on the [Virtual Weber Bullet]. The secret, as with most things in life, is to
use butter. Lots and lots of butter.

[Central Texas style]: https://www.virtualweberbullet.com/turkey-breast-central-texas-style/
[Virtual Weber Bullet]: https://www.virtualweberbullet.com/

---

If you're still reading, I have a small favor to ask. If you happen to be
doing any shopping this holiday season on Amazon, would you mind making a
(small) purchase through my [Amazon affiliate link]? It's not about money for
me--at my peak, I was getting enough from them to maybe buy one book a year.
But I do use an API from them to populate my [reading list], and they've cut
off access to low-performing affiliates like me unless we've generated revenue
for them in the past 30 days. Otherwise I have to copy and paste. It's a drag,
but not the end of the world, and I understand if you'd rather support local
and/or independent retailers. I would do the same.

[Amazon affiliate link]: https://amzn.to/35QDPT4
[reading list]: /pages/reading.html
