---
title: March 2023 update
date: 2023-03-05 17:50 UTC
tags:
---

Hello.

It's been some time since I've written here. After a long (too long, maybe?)
break from extracurricular activities and responsibilities, I feel rusty. Words
don't come as easily as they used to. But I'm trying to write again, here and/or
on [Everyday Rails](https://everydayrails.com). I'll get there. In an attempt to
loosen the creaky cogs and hamster wheel that make up my brain, here's a little
update for anyone interested.

- I'm going on a year in my managerial role at O'Reilly. It's been ok. I still
  write a ton of code, do a lot of technical planning, split my time and
  attention across multiple systems, and mentor. I just manage humans now, too.
  I do miss the ability I used to have to dictate what I was going to work on
  and when, and to go heads down and knock shit out. But I go to where I'm
  needed, and this is where I'm told I'm needed. I think I'm making a difference
  (for the better).
- The three cats are still here, though Amber is not looking great. She's still
  spry, though, and my goal is to keep her happy and comfortable as long as she
  feels like sticking around.
- And I have a dog again. He came with a human. I love them both, very much. The
  dog seems to love me, and I think the human finds me generally ok.
- We are all still in Astoria, but looking for an escape strategy. It's been
  nearly five years for me. I don't like the direction the town has gone during
  and post-pandemic. Too big to have some of the small town problems it has, and
  too small to have some of the big town problems it has, you know?

Hey, 300 words! That seems like a good place to stop for now. I'll try to show
up here a little more often. See you later.
