---
 

date: 2009-03-05
layout: page
title: Wednesday night basketball at Allen Fieldhouse

tags: [ Photography, Lawrence ]

---

Wednesday night was the last regular season home game for the Kansas
women's basketball team, so I finally remembered to tote along my
camera.

[![Kansas Championship
Banners](https://farm4.static.flickr.com/3414/3329492551_128b473ba0.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/3329492551/ "Kansas Championship Banners by ruralocity, on Flickr")

Allen Fieldhouse is known more for the heroics and tradition of its
five-time national champion men's basketball program. The 2008 banner
was hoisted earlier in the season, beneath the famous warning, *Pay
Heed, All Who Enter: Beware of "The Phog."*

[![Crimson and the
Blue](https://farm4.static.flickr.com/3356/3330323126_50bb70ecf7.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/3330323126/ "Crimson and the Blue by ruralocity, on Flickr")

Prior to the game, the cheerleaders and Rock Chalk Dancers lead the
crowd through renditions of "Crimson and Blue," our alma mater; followed
by the Rock Chalk chant. It's similar to how things are done at men's
games, just on a bit smaller scale.

[![Big
Jay](https://farm4.static.flickr.com/3547/3329487727_9a54ed8775.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/3329487727/ "Big Jay by ruralocity, on Flickr")

Big Jay and Baby Jay are both present for women's games. It seems like
they're a little more accessible to kids during these games as opposed
to the always sold-out men's games.

[![Seniors](https://farm4.static.flickr.com/3302/3330321952_9f7b50daf1.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/3330321952/ "Seniors by ruralocity, on Flickr")

It was senior night, marking the final home game for Ivana Catic, Marija
Zinic, Katie Smith, and junior Rebecca Feikert, who's graduating early
and moving on to a career in business.

[![Krysten Boogaard for
2](https://farm4.static.flickr.com/3330/3330322384_b0e49a914e.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/3330322384/ "Krysten Boogaard for 2 by ruralocity, on Flickr")

The underdog Jayhawks jumped on fifth-ranked Baylor early. Sophomore
Krysten Boogaard had a big game after slumping earlier in the season.

[![Lachelda
Jacobs](https://farm4.static.flickr.com/3370/3329487909_68426f4e90.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/3329487909/ "Lachelda Jacobs by ruralocity, on Flickr")

Junior Lachelda Jacobs came off the bench to run the point.

[![Final Score: KU 69, BU
45](https://farm4.static.flickr.com/3356/3330323866_e926dddff7.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/3330323866/ "Final Score: KU 69, BU 45 by ruralocity, on Flickr")

That's not a misprint on the scoreboard: When all was said and done,
Kansas had beaten Baylor by 24 points. Granted, the Lady Bears were
without their top player, but if you'd told me a month ago that such a
score was even remotely possible I wouldn't have believed you. The
Jayhawks have really turned a corner over the last few weeks.

[![Rock Chalk
Jayhawk](https://farm4.static.flickr.com/3414/3330322144_b7979444d0.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/3330322144/ "Rock Chalk Jayhawk by ruralocity, on Flickr")

Rock Chalk Jayhawk! You can see a few more shots from the evening on [my
Flickr
account](http://flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/sets/72157614822087666/).
This weekend I'm going to go back through my shots and possibly add a
few others there, hopefully including one of Danielle McCray, who led
the Jayhawks with a career high 35 points.
