---

date: 2010-08-18
layout: page
title: "Making Things Happen by Scott Berkun (a book report)"
tags: [ "Project Management", "Reading" ]

---

Summer’s coming to an end. It seems like only yesterday that the school
year ended, KU’s student population cleared out of Lawrence, and I
cracked open *[Making Things Happen: Mastering Project
Management](http://oreilly.com/catalog/9780596517717/)* by Scott Berkun. Now it’s August, the students are back in full force, and I’ve spent
my entire summer with this book. Why so much time with one book,
especially when my summer reading list was supposed to be much
longer?*Making Things Happen* is very dense (my notes for about 80% of
the book currently check in at 41 pages). It’s a summary of Berkun’s
experience managing software development projects at Microsoft; in
particular a few iterations of Internet Explorer during the original
browser wars. It makes for an interesting perspective, especially at a
time when Agile methodologies have overtaken most web-oriented projects.
I’ll talk about that more in a minute.

![cover](/assets/images/content/making-things-happen.jpg){: .floater }

If you’re like me and sort of fell into a managerial role for whatever
reason (for me, I think it was because I was never afraid to speak up at
work) but never had either the proper schooling or a solid manager to
look up to at some point in your career, this book can answer a lot of
questions you might have about how your job as a project manager is, at
least in theory, supposed to be done. All of the stages of traditional
software development are explained in detail, along with tips for
documenting the planning process, making tough decisions, communicating,
managing personalities, and damage control. The style is
direct&mdash;blunt, even&mdash;with a good issue-to-example ratio (in my
opinion, writers like Godin and Gladwell can *really* milk an idea by
citing example after example after example, when one or two concrete
case studies would suffice). Like I said, the content is geared toward
software development, but I think if you’re able to think about it
within other contexts you can glean some good information from it. In
particular, instructional designers who use an ADDIE-style approach to
instructional development can learn a lot.

That brings me to Agile within the context of *Making Things Happen*.
Berkun espouses a traditional, planning-heavy approach to software
development&mdash;think waterfall, though it’s not labeled as such,
probably because it’s become such a derogatory term in software
development. He acknowledges Agile (again, not by name), framed within
the discussion of explaining the importance of planning to developers
who think they don’t need to plan. Berkun’s high-ground takeaway is that
all methodologies have their time and place; and from what I learned
reading this book his projects at Microsoft would not have fit that
approach for whatever reason. You may agree with him; you may not.
Personally, I think there’s nothing wrong with a little bit of homework
up front, provided you don’t spend all your time planning and not leave
much time for doing. I also liked the overall tone of his explanation of
his methodology, without resorting to some of the big talk (“software
that matters”) and zealotry that always turns me off when reading about
Agile (as much as I otherwise agree with it as a methodology).

One feature of this book I wish I’d taken more advantage of throughout
is the activities section at the end of each chapter. I think if I’d
read this book as a part of a group these summaries would have been
useful learning and processing exercises. A reader might also be best
served by treating *Making Things Happen* more as a reference than a
textbook, to be called upon during specific tasks or situations. That
said, I think it’s a good addition to a project manager’s bookshelf.

<div class="credit">
Image: <a href="http://oreilly.com/catalog/9780596517717/">O’Reilly and
Associates</a>

</div>

