---

date: 2010-01-25
layout: page
title: "My visit to McArthur Court"
tags: [ Photography, "College Basketball" ]

---

It’s hard to imagine that, in the year 2010, there’s a BCS school
playing in an old gym like [McArthur
Court](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/McArthur_Court), home of the Oregon
Ducks basketball program until this coming December. At that time
McArthur will be replaced by [Matthew Knight
Arena](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matthew_Knight_Arena). With a
combined sense of nostalgia and urgency, I made my way to Eugene during
the gloomiest time of the year to visit the Pacific Northwest to take in
a game at the 83-year-old court--my first stop in what I hope becomes
an ongoing series of visits to historic college basketball facilities.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/4300856371/" title="McArthur Court by ruralocity, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4033/4300856371_378ed2ca87.jpg" width="333" height="500" alt="McArthur Court" /></a>

I’d seen lots of photos of the inside of McArthur Court, but not too
many outdoor shots. It’s easy to see why—the building is not exactly
photogenic; just a large, nondescript concrete building next to newer,
fancier athletics facilities. You might think it’s just an old warehouse
if not for the small, simple signs bearing its name, along with the
current time and temperature. It may also be the only college basketball
arena located [next to a
cemetery](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eugene_Pioneer_Cemetery).

Walking inside Mac Court was possibly the closest I’ve ever come to
walking into a time machine. Watching a college basketball game there is
like watching a college basketball game in the 1930s: The narrow, tiled
concourses are crammed with incoming fans and makeshift vending areas.
Finding your seat requires winding your way up stairs, down wooded floor
hallways, and through tiny, nondescript tunnels.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/4300850947/" title="Banners at McArthur Court by ruralocity, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4029/4300850947_0c6e2165e5.jpg" width="500" height="333" alt="Banners at McArthur Court" /></a>

As we approached the entryway to our section, I remembered that Oregon
won the 1939 National Championship--notable because that year’s
championship was decided by the very first post-season NCAA tournament.
And sure enough, as we walked through the tunnel and into “The Pit”
proper, we were greeted by the large banner commemorating the occasion .

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/4301597598/" title="McArthur Court Scoreboard by ruralocity, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4055/4301597598_dba83a6688.jpg" width="500" height="333" alt="McArthur Court Scoreboard" /></a>

The scoreboards might be the newest features in Mac Court, having
probably been installed in the late sixties by my guess. I’ve taken for
granted the ability to glance up at a scoreboard and see how many points
the current hot hand on the court has tallied. This is not possible at
Mac Court. If you want to know how many points or fouls a player has,
you’d better keep track of that yourself. I bet the guy selling
scorecards cleans up on game day. And at least from our seats, the
public address announcer was not of much help, as the voice coming over
the antiquated sound system was muffled and mostly inaudible.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/4301601536/" title="Oregon pep band by ruralocity, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm3.static.flickr.com/2706/4301601536_9ae1878931.jpg" width="500" height="333" alt="Oregon pep band" /></a>

The lack of a sound system puts the job of supplying music squarely on
the collective shoulders of the pep band. In fact, the only instance of
piped-in music I recall was during a halftime performance of local grade
school unicycle enthusiasts. Luckily, Oregon has a *great* pep
band--their rendition of “Roller Coaster of Love” is the best pep band
rendition of the Ohio Players’ classic you’ll ever hear, I guarantee.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/4300852279/" title="Lute Olson by ruralocity, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4024/4300852279_5333500e23.jpg" width="500" height="333" alt="Lute Olson" /></a>

During pre-game warmups I was pretty sure I’d spotted former Arizona
head coach Lute Olson, and I was right. As part of the ceremonial final
year of Pac-10 basketball at Mac Court, each team was represented by an
honorary captain. Coach Olson, pictured here, served as the Wildcats’
captain and received a nice ovation. (I stood and clapped myself, even
if I am still a bit bitter of his 1997 Arizona team knocking my Jayhawks
out of the tournament.) “Admiral” John Dick, a member of the 1939
championship team, did the honors for the Ducks.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/4301598624/" title="Through the tunnel at the Mac by ruralocity, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4063/4301598624_fb9c1cfc99.jpg" width="500" height="333" alt="Through the tunnel at the Mac" /></a>

Teams don’t have *tunnels* to enter the court through so much as they
have *doorways*. Prior to the Ducks’ entrance from the basement locker
room, some yellow-clad students are ushered from their designated
section to the entryway. These students and cheerleaders line the way
from point to point to welcome the home team.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/4300851897/" title="McArthur Court student section by ruralocity, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4056/4300851897_f9a8648daf.jpg" width="500" height="333" alt="McArthur Court student section" /></a>

The student section with the prime seats is small by other gyms’
standards. Students stand immediately behind the announcing crews and,
for the most part, do a great job of keeping up with and being part of
the game. The “USA! USA!” chant whenever Kyryl Natyazhko (an Arizona
player hailing from the Ukraine) touched the ball was a little dumb,
though, reminding me more of pro wrestling than college basketball.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/4300852859/" title="Press row at McArthur Court by ruralocity, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm3.static.flickr.com/2682/4300852859_4fa2713191.jpg" width="500" height="333" alt="Press row at McArthur Court" /></a>

When McArthur Court was built, press row didn’t need to accommodate
laptops or a gaggle of local and national newsmen. Now, reporters and
their computers crowd a narrow ledge with power cables drooping toward
the fans below.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/4300940645/" title="Arizona vs. Oregon by ruralocity, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4056/4300940645_e773e1938a.jpg" width="500" height="333" alt="Arizona vs. Oregon" /></a>

The only modern element of a basketball game at Mac Court is the
uniform. Oregon is Nike’s flagship school (notable in particular for the
seemingly endless possible combinations of football uniforms the company
supplies for the school) and Arizona is a Nike school as well, meaning
the young men on the court wear tight tank tops and odd, baggy bottoms
that are less like shorts and more like bloomers.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/4301603112/" title="The banners by ruralocity, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4052/4301603112_70ffc8c2d8.jpg" width="500" height="333" alt="The banners" /></a>

McArthur Court is known for its vertical seating arrangement. Tiers of
seats go up and up. And up. From the top deck, sitting in old wooden
bleachers, you can get an eye level view of the Ducks’ collection of
banners. Look down for a bird’s eye view of the action on the floor.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/4301602884/" title="Top-level view by ruralocity, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm3.static.flickr.com/2759/4301602884_4768f73e21.jpg" width="500" height="333" alt="Top-level view" /></a>

The game itself was nothing memorable. The visiting Arizona Wildcats
started off strong and, for the most part, stayed in charge the whole
time. Oregon fans, including much of the student section, made a mass
exodus from the arena when the old clock showed two minutes remaining in
the game and the Wildcats’ victory well in-hand. The Ducks, mired in a
weeks-long slump (a fan behind me made the comment that an ensuing play
was for the first lead they’d hold in *two weeks*; that lead didn’t
happen), made a couple of runs, though. They even stormed back to tie a
few times—and on these runs I got brief glimpses of what it might be
like to *really* see a game at Mac Court, with wood floors creaking and
ceiling fixtures swaying and a raucous, packed crowd of 9,000 fans
looming over the court. I hope the old building gets a few more games
like that before its curtain call this December. Matthew Knight Arena
will no doubt pack all the amenities, but it will be hard-pressed to
match McArthur Court’s simple charm and dignity.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/4300853393/" title="The Pit by ruralocity, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4030/4300853393_3ba343256c.jpg" width="500" height="333" alt="The Pit" /></a>

**Want to see more?** Check out more [photos from my visit to McArthur
Court](http://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/sets/72157623275982880/)
on my Flickr account.
