---

date: 2011-05-13
layout: page
title: "My 10-year Seattle anniversary (and belated love for LiveJournal)"
tags: [ "Seattle", "LiveJournal" ]

---

I was just looking over my long-ago-friends-only-ized LiveJournal
archives and realized that the ten-year anniversary of my big move to
Seattle is afoot (I hit the road west on May 25, 2001). Reading through
my entries, a few things have stood out as interests: First, I talked
more than I probably should have then, and definitely would have
now&mdash;saying way more than I would now. Second, I didn’t give a damn
when an “entry” (something that would be called a “post” nowadays in
social media parlance) didn’t get a comment; I was used to that sort of
thing. And finally, it’s been nice to see how honest I was back
then&mdash;I didn’t hold much back, and I reported what was what way
more often that I do now, even with the relative ease that the social
media explosion gives the world.

Reading about my first arrival to Seattle as a *resident*, my first trip
to the Crocodile (to see Kristin Hersh, realizing that *we lived in the
same town!*), my first visit to Ballard (which would go on to be my
favorite neighborhood-slash-home for a good chunk of my time in
Seattle), having to choose between awesome shows (in my case, Blake
Babies versus the Aislers Set; I chose the latter), my
first-as-a-resident (and possibly only) Seattle earthquake. And Jennifer
Lopez was filming a movie in Seattle! And my first visit to Fremont!
(Hint: Don’t make your first visit to Fremont the Fremont Fair, assuming
they still do that.)

So here’s to you, LiveJournal. In my mind, social media wouldn’t exist
without you. I wouldn’t have made a single friend in Seattle, I don’t
think, without you. And I definitely don’t remember as much about my
life in the time I’ve ignored you as I do when I obsessed over you and
refreshed you a million times a day so I didn’t miss a word.

And Seattle, I love you too and miss you every day&mdash;especially the
great friends I made there. You’re probably not reading this, but if you
are, thank you as well. I’ll be visiting this fall. See you all at
Sunset Bowl. *Oh wait.*
