---

date: 2011-03-22
layout: page
title: "Strata Conference Real World Applications Panel: Education and Government (a Book Report)"
tags: [ "Web,Development" ]

---

O’Reilly Media has recently released videos from last February’s [Strata
Conference](http://strataconf.com/strata2011), a three-day forum on big
data and data-driven decision making. While I’ll admit that I don’t live
and breathe data, most people in my field do. Thanks to the release of
these conference videos, you can get timely access to the sessions held
by Strata, either by purchasing the entire set of videos or
individually. Given my work in education research, I was eager to check
out the session *Real World Applications Panel: Education and
Government*, which consists of two presentations.

In the first presentation, Peter Clark from the University of Minnesota
discusses the challenges and benefits of harmonizing microdata for big
picture analysis. This is a little outside my field of interest or
expertise, but Clark’s demonstrations of pulling global census data from
multiple sources, then doing interesting comparisons with that data,
should compel researchers in other fields to think about ways to mine
data from multiple sources and harmonize those data to tell new,
interesting stories. As Clark suggests in a slide, this ability to
collect so many cases makes it “easy to get statistical significance
when you find a real effect.” If you’re the data-minded sort, take note.

Steve Midgley’s presentation on using big data to identify relevant
educational resources was of more interest to me. Representing the U.S.
Department of Education, Midgley advocates a “learning layer” for Web
2.0 which provides a mechanism for these educators to locate existing,
relevant instructional materials by context. This layer, dubbed the
[Learning Registry](http://www.learningregistry.org/), helps knowledge
creators and knowledge distributors work together to get these materials
into the hands of educators&mdash;who, in turn, provide contextual data
on usage and effectiveness. This is all done via a “common metadata
timeline,” meaning that educators aren’t required to buy into yet
another portal or social network to access these resources. Neat stuff,
and Midgley’s concrete example makes an otherwise academic topic real,
understandable&mdash;and hopefully exciting for anyone creating,
distributing, or consuming instructional content. If you make a living
pitching ideas about education to the federal government, it’s worth a
watch.

I really like what O’Reilly is doing with conference videos. The quick
turnaround, making them available either as a set or a la carte, and the
high quality of the videos themselves make them ideal for anyone from
big-time data nerds to people like me with relatively small overlaps in
interest. While it appears the presenters had a few technical issues
with slides not displaying, these matters didn’t adversely affect the
overall quality of the video.

[More information about *Real World Applications Panel: Education and
Government*](http://oreilly.com/catalog/0636920019633/) is available
from O’Reilly.

**Note:** I wrote this review for [O’Reilly’s Blogger Review
Program](http://oreilly.com/bloggers/). It’s a pretty nice deal: Get a
free e-book to read, share a review in your blog, get another free book
to read. Sign up for yourself to take advantage of this deal, and watch
for more book reports in my blog.
