---

date: 2011-03-12
layout: page
title: "Offline Mobile Web Applications in HTML5 (a Book Report)"
tags: [ "Web,Development" ]

---

![cover](/assets/images/content/offline-mobile-web.gif){: .floater }
If you’re a web developer who’s holding off on HTML5, it’s time to take
the plunge. Luckily there are plenty of books, videos, online tutorials,
and other resources to help you get started. Add *Offline Mobile Web
Applications in HTML5* to your list.

In this video, developer David Griffiths walks you through an important
part of HTML5 that often gets overlooked in much of the hoopla and Adobe
versus Apple battles: The “blue collar part” consisting of form
enhancements (without Javascript) and client-side application
technology. Anyone who does database-driven web application development
should get excited as Griffiths explains the process of making an
offline-ready application using only web technologies. Even if you’re
not planning on developing for the mobile web, you’ll glean plenty of
good techniques on form building, offline caching, and remote caching
that will come in handy in your future web application development.

Will this video make you an expert in HTML5? No, but it will get you
well on your way, and in a relatively short amount of time. *Offline
Mobile Web Applications in HTML5* is a solid introduction to a core
technology you’ll be using every day in the coming years&mdash;and now’s
a great time to get started.

[More information about *Offline Mobile Web Applications in
HTML5*](http://oreilly.com/catalog/0636920016571/) is available from
O’Reilly.

**Note:** I wrote this review for [O’Reilly’s Blogger Review
Program](http://oreilly.com/bloggers/). It’s a pretty nice deal: Get a
free e-book to read, share a review in your blog, get another free book
to read. Sign up for yourself to take advantage of this deal, and watch
for more book reports in my blog.
