---

date: 2011-06-15
layout: page
title: "My summer 2011 reading list"
excerpt: "Just for the record, here's what I'm going to try to get through this summer."
tags: ["Reading", "Learning", "Ruby", "Rails", "Games", "Music"]

---

I saw a little while ago that Seth Godin has a [summer reading
list](http://www.squidoo.com/summer-reading-2011) posted. Just for the
sake of discussion, here’s what I’m hoping to plow through this summer:

### *The Fifth Discipline: The Art and Practice of the Learning Organization* by Peter M. Senge

Perhaps this is outdated and/or discredited by now, as most business
books become over time, but I find the notion of “learning
organizations” pretty fascinating and figured I’d learn more from the
source. I bought a used copy from the early 90s, written in a
pre-Internet era, but it’s an interesting read.
[Amazon](http://www.amazon.com/Fifth-Discipline-Practice-Learning-Organization/dp/0385517254/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1308191656&sr=8-1)

### *Reality is Broken: Why Games Make Us Better and How They Can Change the World* by Jane McGonigal

I’m reading this to prepare for a presentation I’m giving at SIDLIT
later this summer on the topic of gamification. So far it’s more big
picture than some of the other things I’ve read, and less about
schmaltzy markety stuff. So I like it. See her [TED
talk](http://www.ted.com/talks/jane_mcgonigal_gaming_can_make_a_better_world.html)
for a primer.
[Amazon](http://www.amazon.com/Reality-Broken-Games-Better-Change/dp/1594202850/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1308191040&sr=8-1)

### *Crafting Rails Applications: Expert Practices for Everyday Rails Development* by Jos&eacute; Valim

I picked this up during a recent Pragmatic Programmers deal and have
been looking forward to it for a few reasons. I like the idea of looking
at core Rails code to become a better Rails and Ruby developer, and I’m
curious to see what a book that [totally co-opted the name of my
insanely popular Rails blog](http://everydayrails.com/) in its name has
to say. (I kid.)
[Amazon](http://www.amazon.com/Crafting-Rails-Applications-Development-Programmers/dp/1934356735/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1308191302&sr=8-1)

### *H&uuml;sker D&uuml;: The Story of the Noise-pop Pioneers who Launched Modern Rock* by Andrew Earles

Just because they’re the greatest band ever.
[Amazon](http://www.amazon.com/Husker-Du-Noise-Pop-Pioneers-Launched/dp/0760335044/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1308192451&sr=1-1)

. . .

I should mention that I don’t have any Amazon affiliate accounts set up
or anything; the links are just for reference. Buy these from wherever
you’d like. If you have or would like to read any of these, I’d love to
talk about them with you sometime.
