---

date: 2011-12-17
layout: page
title: "Ten Photo Assignments: A Book Report"
tags: [ "Reading", "Photography" ]

---

A number of years ago I took a photography class at my local arts
center. I quit after a few sessions because it was unorganized and tried
to appeal to too many levels. As an alternative I decided that the best
study for me would be to read more books on the topic and practice. *Ten
Photo Assignments* by Amanda Quintenz-Fielder looked to be the best of
both worlds: Ten advanced exercises in photographic technique and
principles, in a book format. One important note to take care of right
off the bat: If you don’t have a digital SLR camera, this book probably
isn’t for you. If you’re a raw beginner, this book probably isn’t for
you either. You’ll need some gear, a little bit of understanding of that
gear, and some patience to work through the assignments in the book.

![cover](https://covers.oreilly.com/images/9781933952796/cat.gif){: .floater }

The first six assignments deal with the technical aspects of these
cameras, focusing on features your point-and-shoot or camera phone don’t
have. You might also need to get ready to spend money on equipment you
don’t have, such as a light meter or extra lenses. I believe the
Quintenz-Fielder’s intent is to have you master the technical matters
first so they don’t impede your artistic eye as your skills develop. I
can understand that but admit I had to improvise a bit due to lack of
equipment.

The remaining chapters address composition and light, and provide a good
introduction to working with both to create great photographs. There are
lots of resources online and elsewhere on composition (think: rule of
thirds), but the two lessons on light are more unique based on what I’ve
seen.

In my opinion there are better books and resources on photography than
*Ten Photo Assignments*, though perhaps not as thorough. If you’ve got
the gear and want to learn how to use it better, then working through
this book may be a good exercise for you. If your interest in
photography aren’t great enough to invest that kind of money or time,
look toward other sources.

[More information about *Ten Photo
Assignments*](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/9781933952796.do) is
available from O’Reilly.

**Note:** I wrote this review for [O’Reilly’s Blogger Review
Program](http://oreilly.com/bloggers/). It’s a pretty nice deal: Get a
free e-book to read, share a review in your blog, get another free book
to read. Sign up for yourself to take advantage of this deal, and watch
for more book reports in my blog.
