---
title: 3 picks for February 19, 2015
date: 2015-02-19
tags:
---

### [Pencil](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00JP12300/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=B00JP12300&linkCode=as2&tag=everrail-20&linkId=3YYRIQZKF6KTW7RJ)

I've been having a lot of fun with this the past few weeks. The
[Paper](https://www.fiftythree.com/paper) app has been on my iPad for
years, but I kind of got tired of it because my experiments with cheap
styli or finger-drawing didn't pan out. Pencil is a few bucks more than
competing models, but worth it if you're interested in drawing on your
iPad. I've started themed doodles every night before going to bed--[check
out some of my masterpieces on
Flickr](https://www.flickr.com/photos/rockchalk/sets/72157648578963644/).

### [Plex](http://plex.tv)

I suspect I'm late to the party on this one, but if you're interested in
home media streaming, Plex is the way to go. I'd been putting it off,
thinking I needed to get some dedicated hardware for it, but after a few
days of monkeying with [Raspbmc](http://www.raspbmc.com) I decided to
install the free Plex server software on my plain old (and I mean *old*)
Mac laptop. Sold. I was up and running in a few minutes, even streaming
video to a WiiU via the browser.  I do think a little dedicated home
server is in my future, but I'm incredibly pleased with the results so far
(as is everyone else I've ever talked to about Plex).

### [Pronto](http://everydayrails.com/2015/02/17/pronto-ruby-code-review.html)

This is a post I wrote earlier this week about one of my new favorite
Rubygems, [Pronto](https://github.com/mmozuras/pronto). Pronto helps
automate some of the low-hanging-fruit aspects of code review, helping you
make your commits as clean as possible *before* creating that pull request.
I've been using it at work for a few weeks and can't recommend it enough.
