---
title: Super-simple DIY drawer organizers
date: 2022-01-02 23:27 UTC
tags:
---

![organized drawer inspector](/assets/images/content/drawers.jpg)

After a few months away from my tiny wood shop, I spent some time on the first
day of my annual winter break, also known as my fake retirement, working to
address a small need that’s bugged me for years: Better kitchen drawer
management!

Maybe I should have taken some before photos, but is there really a point? You
know what a cluttered drawer looks like. We all have them and learn to live with
them. But I got tired of fishing for measuring spoons multiple times each day,
and decided it was time for a change.

I picked up this approach from [an article in Family
Handyman](https://www.familyhandyman.com/project/maximize-your-drawer-space/)
(which also has ideas for other drawer organizers). By using spacers to separate
each compartment instead of grooves, I figure I knocked a few hours off the
overall process, and gave myself a little room for error and/or changing my mind
as I went along. In the end, I spruced up three drawers in just over an hour.

![organized drawers!](/assets/images/content/drawers2.jpg)

If you do any sort of woodworking yourself, you know the price of lumber is
pretty bonkers right now. Aside from some screws, I was able to organize all
three drawers from scrap material I already had around. Depending on how many
drawers you’re looking to tame, you could probably get pretty far with a
half-inch and a quarter-inch plywood handy panel.

I did most of the work on a table saw, but a circular saw would work, too. If
power saws make you nervous, check out [Brad Rodriguez’s take on DIY drawer
organizers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DAb2vevBUdM), which shows how to
accomplish something similar with a simple hand saw and miter box.

Yeah, this is a simple project, maybe not even worth writing up. But after a
pretty long layoff from shop work, it was good to get down there, away from
computers, working with my hands, and working my brain in ways I don’t for my
day job. I hope you have hobbies and projects that let you do that sort of
thing, too.
